In this lesson, we'll look at the new APlayerState class.
Let's create it first. Go to the player directory. This class can be found in the general list.
We select it.
Let's call the class STUPlayerState. Click the create class button.
PlayerState is generated for each player. This class exists in the same way as the controller throughout
the game, that is, it is not deleted along with the character, for example, when we die.
Therefore, it is convenient to store various data in it that are not directly related to the character. Most often
these are statistical data: the number of deaths, the number of kills, the player's name, team number, and so on.
In this lesson, we will distribute the players by teams and assign a unique color to
each team . We need two variables in PlayerState: the first will be responsible for
the team number. Let's call it TeamID, and the second one will be responsible for the color of the team - TeamColor.
Additionally, let's create getter / setter functions for these variables in the public section.
Next, we move to the file with our types. Let's create two fields in GameData. The first field will be
responsible for the default color of the team, it will be used as a last
resort, if suddenly the colors for the teams are not set in the game mode blueprint.
Let it be red by default.
The second property will be an array of colors,
from which we will choose a color for the team, depending on the TeamID.
Go to the header file game mode. Let's add the necessary functions for the distribution of players
by teams. The first function will be called CreateTeamsInfo. This function will be called
once at the start of the game. Directly in it, we will distribute the players by teams.
The following helper function will return the color based on the TeamID.
Let's call the function DetermineColorByTeamID. It will have one parameter - this is the command number.
And the last function will be called SetPlayerColor.
This function will transfer its color to the character class. It will have one parameter - a pointer
to the player's controller. Let's create a body for each function.
Let's include the header file PlayerState.
In the constructor, you must set the base class for PlayerState. Property is named PlayerStateClass.
We indicate that we want to use STUPlayerState in this game mode.
The game starts in the StartPlay function. We have created all the bots and after that we
need to distribute them into teams. Therefore, the CreateTeamsInfo function will be called here.
Let's program the logic for this function. A pointer to PlayerState is stored in the controller.
Therefore, we can iterate over all the controllers, as we did before,
and set all the necessary data in the PlayerState of each of the controllers. Checking world for nullptr.
Copy the loop through the controllers. There will be two teams in our game. If desired, it
will be easy to expand it to any number of teams. We create a local variable that
will be responsible for the command number. We name it TeamID and set it to 1 by default.
Create a local variable that will hold the raw pointer to the controller.
If the pointer is null, then we call the continue statement.
If not, create a variable that will hold a pointer to the PlayerState.
The pointer to PlayerState is in the controller.
Property is called PlayerState. Naturally, property is of the base class type APlayerState,
so we need to cast to our STUPlayerState type.
We also check: if the PlayerState pointer is null, then we call the continue operator.
So, we got a pointer to PlayerState. Now we
can take advantage of our functions. Let's start by setting the TeamID value.
We pass the TeamID variable to the SetTeamID function.
Next, let's set the color for the players.
We call the SetTeamColor function.
And we will pass there the value returned by the DetermineColorByTeamID function.
We will create it very soon. And at the very end, you need to change the TeamID variable. Since we have two
teams, we can use the ternary operator. If TeamID was equal to one,
then it will be equal to two and vice versa. Next, we need to determine the color depending on the TeamID.
Let's implement the DetermineColorByTeamID function. First, we check: if TeamID is 1 <GameData.TeamColorsNum
TeamID starts with one. In the array, the first element has index 0. Therefore, to
check the correctness of TeamID as an array index, we need to decrease TeamID by one.
If the condition is met, then everything is correct. TeamID does not exceed
the boundaries of the array and we can return the color with the TeamID - 1 index. If the condition is
not met, for example, we forgot to set the colors in the array. Let's display a Warning message.
And in this situation, we will return the default color from the GameData structure. We have set the color to PlayerState.
After that, you need to call the SetPlayerColor function. Let's add the call to our loop right away.
And we will pass a pointer to the controller as a parameter. We will also need to
call this function when the respawn occurs. A pawn that has just been created has no idea what
color it should have. Therefore, we need to call this function also in the ResetOnePlayer function.
Let's move on to creating the SetPlayerColor function.
Check the controller for nullptr.
Next, we create a local variable that will store a pointer to our character.
Cast directly to the STUBaseCharacter type.
Cast will be done for the pointer returned by the GetPawn controller function.
If the pointer to character is null, then we also exit the function. Next, we get a pointer to PlayerState.
Naturally, we can immediately transfer the color to this function so that we do not repeat Cast to PlayerState in the loop.
But since this function will also be called in ResetOnePlayer, in any case we
will need to add the code for getting PlayerState, that is, in this case, we prefer the
readability of the code, although this will also not affect performance in any way since CreateTeamsInfo
is called once for the whole the game. Now that we have pointers to Character and PlayerState,
we can set the character to the desired color. We call an as yet non-existent function
in Character - SetPlayerColor and pass there the color that the GetTeamColor function returns.
Everything. Thus, all the code for the game mode is ready. It remains for us to implement the SetPlayerColor function
in the character class. Let's go to the header file character.
We create a function in the public section.
It will have one parameter of type FLinearColor. This function will set the parameter to the material
What kind of code we wrote with you in the very first section. Let's create an additional property that will be
responsible for the name of the material parameter. The type will be FName. Let's call it MaterialColorName.
The default name for this variable is PaintColor. I already know the name of the parameter.
In a few minutes we will check this in the material editor.
We create the body of the function.
We need to create a dynamic material from the material that is on the mesh.
We create a local variable MaterialInstance and call the CreateAndSetMaterialInstanceDynamic function.
We looked at what happens inside this function in the first section, so if
someone has forgotten, then I recommend watching the video. If MaterialInstance is zero, then exit the function.
If not zero, then call the SetVectorParameterValue function.
The first argument is the name of the MaterialColorName parameter, and the second is the color itself.
Everything is ready. Let's compile the project and see what happens.
First, open the material of our character, scroll to the left and see that there is a parameter
called PaintColor. We will establish its value. So, let's open the log, launch the game.
We did not fill the array of colors, so our warnings were displayed and the color for the characters is red,
which we have by default. We fill the array of colors. Let the first color be a shade of green.
Add a second color. Let's make it blue.
And set the number of players to 4. Compile. We start the game. We see that the players were
divided into two teams and the corresponding colors were established for the materials.